# Types of examples
The examples here displayed are divided in two categories: the **compilation examples** and the **simulation examples**. 

The compilation examples, located in the `compilation` folder, are just a series of InQuIR files with their associated NetQASM files product of the compilation using INQASM. These files are displayed here in order for the user to compare and check that INQASM is properly working.

On the other hand, the simulation examples, located in the `simulation` folder are composed by two folders: one called *inqasm_files*  and the other called *netqasm_files*. They are responsible for executing the NetQASM circuits with the NetQASM framework. The first one employs the subroutines generated by the INQASM compiler and the second one the subroutines generated by the NetQASM framework. This is done to check that the INQASM compilation gives the same results as the NetQASM framework, showcasing the correctness of the compiler. In these examples the simulations are performed in the NetSQUID simulator.

# Example execution
## Compilation execution
To compile the two examples (although there could be many more by using the [InQuIR tool](https://github.com/team-InQuIR/InQuIR) to translate QASM programs to InQuIR), as explained in the root README.md of this project, one just has to perform the following operation:

```console
inqasm -f <inquir_file>
```

For example, for the `dist_cnot` case it would be: `inqasm -f cnot.inq`. The `Node0` and `Node1` folders are the folders containing the NetQASM files for each node.

## Simulation execution
In order to execute the examples, the user just has to execute the command 

```console
netqasm simulate
```

inside one of the two folders (the compilation and the simulation one), just as a regular NetQASM program. This will run the so called *NetQASM apps* and yield the result.